tools/indexer/README.md, before:

# OCFL indexer

-   [OCFL indexer](#ocfl-indexer)
    -   [About](#about)
    -   [Mappings](#mappings)
    -   [Transformers](#transformers)
    -   [Running it](#running-it)
    -   [Running against a specific crate](#running-against-a-specific-crate))

## About

This tool will walk an OCFL filesystem lookup for objects that have an `RO-Crate` inside as identifier by the presence of a file named `ro-crate-metadata.jsonld`. When a crate is located the object is loaded and then submitted to the indexer.

## Mappings

Elastic search has a concept of [mappings](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/mapping.html). From the docs: `Mapping is the process of defining how a document, and the fields it contains, are stored and indexed`.

Depending on the data coming you may want to provide mappings defining how it is to be indexed. In this case you can add domain specific mappings to the indexer for that data. See [here](./mappings/README.md) for information on how to do that.

## Transformers

As with mappings, domain specific data may need to be transformed before indexing. See [here](./transformers/README.md) for information on how to do that.

## Running it

```
./node_modules/.bin/babel-node ocfl-tools.js indexer \
    --search http://localhost:9200 \
    --username indexer \
    --password somerandompassword \
    --source /path/to/ocfl-repository \
    --log-level=info
```

Things to note:

-   ensure `source` is always a fully qualified path - relative paths will fail
-   supported log levels: debug, info, warn and error. Default is warn.

## Running against a specific crate

```
./node_modules/.bin/babel-node ocfl-tools.js indexer \
    --search http://localhost:9200 \
    --username indexer \
    --password somerandompassword \
    --log-level=debug \
    --source $PWD/test-data
    --path-to-object ocfl-object-5
```

Things to note:

-   ensure `source` is always a fully qualified path - relative paths will fail.
-   `path-to-object` must be the full path relative to the `source` (the OCFL root.)

Commit message:

update tools - revise indexing code
commit 75830f9ed71327527bfefa06dfa85cb7a0d29b7b
Author: Marco La Rosa <m@lr.id.au>
Date:   Wed Jun 23 16:03:02 2021 +1000

    cleanup; revise documentation

commit cfbacd44a6f66c17d9f30b71ff9d5737ab7e7df7
Author: Marco La Rosa <m@lr.id.au>
Date:   Wed Jun 23 15:58:04 2021 +1000

    remove legacy entry point

commit 1c4380408f165883e16b4f28eeff7cfbe845675f
Author: Marco La Rosa <m@lr.id.au>
Date:   Wed Jun 23 15:57:39 2021 +1000

    remove legacy code

commit 86c9abec6744a5be15fb85f84f4e7acb629cb309
Author: Marco La Rosa <m@lr.id.au>
Date:   Wed Jun 23 15:57:23 2021 +1000

    revise segment identifiers

commit ee01f3e904f2f66a549df19d9239361dca226074
Author: Marco La Rosa <m@lr.id.au>
Date:   Wed Jun 23 13:46:56 2021 +1000

    revise transcription indexing

commit a7129934af34daef4388f387f83d0842c1e7faad
Author: Marco La Rosa <m@lr.id.au>
Date:   Wed Jun 23 09:20:34 2021 +1000

    setup a default domain configuration if none defined

commit df54a82869609cba59c0c0d574f59d4856b7a990
Author: Marco La Rosa <m@lr.id.au>
Date:   Wed Jun 23 09:19:19 2021 +1000

    fix property spelling

commit ee76d188cc2ea997f47a3730a84910ea319f488d
Author: Marco La Rosa <m@lr.id.au>
Date:   Wed Jun 23 09:18:32 2021 +1000

    update elastic version

commit 173b3018866988e2ccd5d1eb5114084c64389a0f
Author: Marco La Rosa <m@lr.id.au>
Date:   Tue Jun 22 16:21:49 2021 +1000

    rewrite main indexer code; drive by configuration

commit 579b86bd45c78bb82396b1da1f6a70987653ba64
Author: Marco La Rosa <m@lr.id.au>
Date:   Tue Jun 22 16:21:28 2021 +1000

    remove legacy code

tools/indexer/README.md, after:

# OCFL indexer

- [OCFL indexer](#ocfl-indexer)
  - [About](#about)
  - [Mappings](#mappings)
  - [Running it](#running-it)
  - [Running against a specific crate](#running-against-a-specific-crate)

## About

This tool will walk an OCFL filesystem lookup for objects that have an `RO-Crate` inside as identifier by the presence of a file named `ro-crate-metadata.jsonld`. When a crate is located the object is loaded and then submitted to the indexer.

## Mappings

Elastic search has a concept of [mappings](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/mapping.html). From the docs: `Mapping is the process of defining how a document, and the fields it contains, are stored and indexed`.

Depending on the data coming you may want to provide mappings defining how it is to be indexed. In this case you can add domain specific mappings to the indexer for that data. See [here](./mappings/README.md) for information on how to do that.

<!-- ## Transformers

As with mappings, domain specific data may need to be transformed before indexing. See [here](./transformers/README.md) for information on how to do that. -->

## Running it

```
node . --config /path/to/configfile

To change the log level:
node . --config /path/to/configfile --log-level debug
```

Things to note:

-   ensure `source` is always a fully qualified path - relative paths will fail
-   supported log levels: debug, info, warn and error. Default is warn.

## Running against a specific crate

```
node . --config /path/to/configfile --id {id of OCFL object}

To change the log level:
node . --config /path/to/configfile --id {id of OCFL object} --log-level debug
```

Things to note:

-   ensure `source` is always a fully qualified path - relative paths will fail.
-   `id` must be the id of the object you want to use - not the pairtree path
